# deep-learning-challenge
<h1>Module 21 Challenge<br></h1>
<h2>Overview: Report on the Neural Network Model</h2>
<p>The nonprofit foundation Alphabet Soup wants a tool that can help it select the applicants for funding with the best chance of success in their ventures. With your knowledge of machine learning and neural networks, you’ll use the features in the provided dataset to create a binary classifier that can predict whether applicants will be successful if funded by Alphabet Soup.</p><br></p><h2>Results: Data Preprocessing</h2><br>What variable(s) are the target(s) for your model?<ul><li>The 'IS_SUCCESSFUL' column from application_df is the target variable, this is what we are trying to predict. This shows if the money was used effectively.</li></ul><br>What variable(s) are the features for your model?<ul><li>AFFILIATION—Affiliated sector of industry</li>
<li>CLASSIFICATION—Government organization classification</li>
<li>USE_CASE—Use case for funding</li>
<li>ORGANIZATION—Organization type</li>
<li>STATUS—Active status</li>
<li>INCOME_AMT—Income classification</li>
<li>SPECIAL_CONSIDERATIONS—Special considerations for application</li>
<li>ASK_AMT—Funding amount requested</li></ul><br>What variable(s) should be removed from the input data because they are neither targets nor features?<ul><li>The "EIN" and "NAME" columns are identification columns. These identification columns can be dropped without affecting the model's accuracy.</li></ul><br><h2>Results: Compiling, Training, and Evaluating the Model</h2><br>How many neurons, layers, and activation functions did you select for your neural network model, and why?<ul><li>In my first neural network model, I used a two-layers with 80 neurons in the first layer and 30 neurons in the second layer. ReLU actication function was used for those layers, which I've learned could create a complex model and learn the pattern. In the output layer, a single neuron was used with a sigmoid activation function to map the output to a range between 0 and 1.</li></ul><br>Were you able to achieve the target model performance?<ul><li>I was unable to achieve the target model performance of 75%.</li></ul><br>What steps did you take in your attempts to increase model performance?<ul><li>I attemped to increase the number of neurons and epochs to create more iterations that could allow for better representation of the relationships.</li></ul><br><h2>Summary:</h2><p>Overall, the deep learning model developed was only able to reach 73% accurate in predicting the classification problem. Using a model with greater correlation between input and output would likely result in higher prediction accuracy. This could be achieved by doing additional data cleanup up front, as well as by using a model with different activation functions and iterating until higher accuracy is reached.</p>
